This is a very simple Geant4 code that exports all the elements and materials from the NIST database in Geant4 to a
single XML file.

All the elements are built from their isotopic composition, according to the database, for example:

```
<!-- element Li -->
	<isotope N="6" Z="3" name="Li6">
		<atom type="A" value="6.015120"/>
	</isotope>
	<isotope N="7" Z="3" name="Li7">
		<atom type="A" value="7.016000"/>
	</isotope>
	<element name="Li">
		<fraction n="0.075900" ref="Li6"/>
		<fraction n="0.924100" ref="Li7"/>
	</element>
```

Materials are built from these elements. All materials start with `G4_` such as `G4_STAINLESS-STEEL`:

```
<!-- material G4_STAINLESS-STEEL -->
	<material name="G4_STAINLESS-STEEL" state="solid">
		<D value="8.000000" unit="g/cm3"/>
		<fraction n="0.746213" ref="Fe"/>
		<fraction n="0.169001" ref="Cr"/>
		<fraction n="0.084786" ref="Ni"/>
	</material>
```

When building a `GDML` file for use in Geant4/REST, it is not really necessary to define most materials, since if you
use one of the materials named in this list, such as `G4_Pb` (without including it), Geant4 will internally pull all the
data related to this material. In fact, it could be problematic to define them again if its not done correctly as it
would override the correct properties for the materials, that is why this file is built automatically.

However, redefining these materials in its own file has some advantages. For example, when visualizing via ROOT a
geometry built using these materials, ROOT will automatically understand the medium/material for each volume and color
them accordingly, which is crucial for good visualization.

The `NIST.xml` file generated by running this code should be kept at the root of this
project (https://github.com/rest-for-physics/materials) and not be modified!.

All other `materials.xml` files should use the materials and elements defined in this file whenever possible.

# Generating the `NIST.xml` file

Just compile and execute the Geant4 code contained in this directory. You will need to have Geant4 installed.

```
mkdir -p build && cd build 
cmake ..
make

./generateNIST
# move the file to the project root directory
mv ./NIST.xml ../../
```

### Author and Maintainer

Luis Antonio Obis Aparicio (@lobis).

